you
this lecture is about the ordinal
logistical regression for sentiment
analysis so this was our problem setup
for a typical sentiment classification
problem or more specifically rating
prediction we have opinionated attacks
about community as input and we want to
generate as output already in the range
of 1 through K so it's discrete rating
and that vas this is a categorization
problem we have K categories here now we
can use a regular textbook a tradition
technique to solve this problem but such
a problem solution would not consider
the order and dependency of the
categories intuitively the features that
can distinguish a category two from one
or rather rating two from one may be
similar to those that can distinguish
cave from K minus 1 for example positive
words generally suggest a higher rate
now when we train categorization program
by treating these categories as
independent we would not capture this so
what's the solution
well in general we can add order to
classify and there are many different
approaches and here we're going to talk
about one of them it's called an ordinal
logistical question now let's first
think about how we can use logistic
regression for a binary sending the
categorization problem so suppose we
just want to distinguish it positive
from negative and then it's just a 2
category categorization problem so the
predictors are represented as X and
these are the features and there are M
features altogether the feature value is
a real number and this can be
replenishing of a text document I and
why it has two values binary response
variable 0 1 1 means X is positive 0
means X is negative and then of course
this is a standard together a
categorization problem we can apply
logical regression you may recall that
in Otisville regression we assumed the
log art of probability that
why is because one is assumed to be a
linear function of these features as
shown here so this would allow us to
also write the probability of y equals 1
given X in this equation that you are
seeing on the bottom and so that's
logistical function and you can see it
relates this probability to probability
of y equals 1 to the feature values and
of course bad eyes are parameters here
so this is just a director application
of notice regression for binary
calculation what if we have multiple
categories multiple levels well we have
to use such a binary logistic regression
program to solve this multi-level rating
prediction and the idea is we can
introduce multiple binary classifiers
and in each case we ask the pacifier to
predict whether the rating is J or above
all the rating is lower than J so when y
sub J is equal to 1 it means rating is
as J or above went to 0 that means the
reading is lower than J so basically if
we want to predict the rating in the
range of 1 through K we first have one
classifier to distinguish it K versus
others and that's our classifier 1 and
then we're going to have another
classifier to distinguish it k minus 1
from the rest that's class by 2 and in
the end we need a classifier to
distinguish it 2 & 1 so all together
we'll have K minus 1 class files now if
we do that of course then we can also
solve this problem and the logistical
regression program would be also very
straightforward as you have just seen on
the previous slide only that here we
have
remnants because for each classify we
need a different set of parameters so
now the artists were requesting pacifies
indexed by je which corresponds to a
rating level and I have also used the R
sub J to replace beta0 and this is to
make the notation more consistent with
what we can show in the Odin or not a
square regression so anyway so here we
now have basically K minus 1 record a
lot it's called crashing classifiers
each has its own set of parameters so
now with this approach we can now do
rating prediction as follows after we
have trained these K minus 1 or just
regression classifier and separated of
course then we can take a new instance
and then invoke a class file
sequentially to make the decision so
first let's look at the classifier that
corresponds to level of rating K so this
classifier will tell us whether this
this objector should have a rating of K
or about and it's probability according
to this logical regression classifier is
larger than 0.05 we're going to say yes
the ratings came now what if it's not as
large as 25 well that means the rating
is below okay right so now we need to
invoke the next classifier which tells
us whether it's above K minus 1 it's at
least K minus 1 and if the probability
is larger than 0.05 then we'll say well
then it's K minus 1 what if it says no
well that means the rating will be even
below K minus 1 and so we're going to
just keep invoking these classifiers and
here we hit the end when we need to
decide whether it's 2 or 1 so this will
help us to solve the problem right so we
can have a classifier that would
actually give us a prediction of a
rating in the range of 1 through okay
now unfortunately such a strategy is not
the optimal way of solving this problem
and specifically there are are two
problems with this approach so these
equations are the same as you have seen
before now the first problem is that
there are just too too many parameters
there are many parameters now can you
count how many parameters do we have
exactly here now this may be interesting
exercise to do so you might want to just
pause a video and try to figure out the
solution how many Prime's go happen for
each classifier and how many classifiers
do we have well you can see the answer
is that for each classifier we have n
plus 1 parameters and we have K minus 1
classifiers all together so the total
number of premises k minus 1 multiplied
by m plus 1 that's a lot a lot of
parameters so when the classifier has a
lot of parameters wouldn't in general
need a lot of data to actually help us
training data to help us decide the
optimal parameters of the list such a
complex model so that's not an idea now
the second problem is that these
problems these K minus 1 class files are
not really independent these problems
are actually dependent in general words
that are positive would make the rating
higher and for for any of these class
files for all these class files so we
should be able to take advantage of this
this factor now the idea of all the
neurological regression is precisely
that the key idea is just the
improvement over the K minus 1
independent illogical regression
classifiers
look and that idea is to tie these beta
parameters and that means we are going
to
assume the beta parameters these are the
parameters that indicated the influence
of those weights and we're going to
assume these beta values are the same
for all the K minus one premise and this
just encodes our intuition that positive
was in general would make a higher
rating more likely so this is
intuitively appealing as something it's
reasonable for our problem setup when we
have this order in these categories now
in the fact this would allow us to have
two positive benefit a one is it's going
to reduce the number of parameters
significantly and the other is to allow
us to share the training data because
all these parameters are similar to be
equal so these training there are four
different classifiers can then be shared
to help us set an optimal value for beta
so we have more data to help us choose a
good better value so what's the
consequence well the formula would look
very similar to what you have seen
before only that now the beta parameter
has just one index that corresponds to
the feature an owner has the other index
that corresponds to the level of reading
so that means we tied them together and
there's only one set of beta values for
all the cast files however each
classifier still has a distinctive r4
value the Alpha parameter the intercept
it's different and this is of course
needed to predict the different levels
of ratings so alpha sub J is different
it depends on J different the J has a
different alpha but the rest of the
parameters the betas are the same so now
you can also ask the question how many
parameters do we have now again that's
an interesting question to think about
so if you think about it for a moment
and you will see now the pram
we have far fewer parameters
specifically we have M plus K minus 1
because we have M beta values and plus K
minus 1 of our values so that's just
that basically that's basically the main
idea of Audino logistical regression so
now let's see how we can use such a
method to actually assign ratings it
turns out that with this this idea of
tying all the parameters the beta values
we also end up by having a similar way
to make decisions and more specifically
now the criterion whether the predictor
probability is above is at least 0.05
above and now is equivalent that to
whether the score of the object is
larger than or equal to negative alpha
sub J as shown here
now the scoring function now is just
taking a linear combination of all the
of all the features way to divide beta
values and so this means now we can
simply make a decision of rating by
looking at the value of this scoring
function and see which bracket it falls
into now you can see the general
decision rule is thus when the score is
in the particular range of our values
then we will assign the corresponding
rating to that text object so in sum in
this approach we're going to score the
object by using the features and the
trainer parameter values beta values and
this score will then be compared with a
set of training alpha values to see
which range the score is in and then
using the range we can then decide which
rating the objective should be getting
because these ranges of value
correspond to the different levels of
ratings and that's from the the way we
train these other values each is tied to
some level of reading